Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
So if you remember back when you created your
account, there's no real profile picture on Snapchat.
You don't get to upload your logo
or Snapcode, which kind of sucks.
The only way to customize it at this moment,
depending when you guys are listening to this, is to connect
to an app that's called Bitmoji and then create a cartoon
kind of avatar for yourself.
Doesn't really work that well for brands or businesses,
since all you can create is a boy or a girl, so, you know,
you're basically left with a ghost icon and a yellow box,
unfortunately. Well, your Snapcode isn't completely
useless, and for people in your audience out there
who are on Snapchat and haven't discovered
you yet, that actually can be pretty useful.
Now, first things first, go into the Snapchat app,
click on the icon in the upper left
and you'll find your Snapcode.
Click on it and select "Save to camera roll" or "Download"
or whatever option your phone has - it's different
based on the operating system you're on.
Now, here's one thing you can do with your Snapcode.
Add it to any list of social media links you provide
on your website, in your emails, or other platforms
where you have a presence. If your blog has a sidebar,
place it in there so people can easily
see and scan it with their phone.
Another way to use your Snapcode is to make it
your Twitter or Facebook profile picture, I actually
mentioned this before, but it's a great way to let everybody
know for a short period of time, "Hey, we're on Snapchat."
In general, when you do that, Snapchatters will know
that they can just take a photo of the code and
then they'll add you as a friend.
That's the easiest way of finding you versus searching
for you and hopefully they know your handle.
You can also feature the Snapcode inside of a larger
image on Facebook or Twitter where you promote
your Snapchat profile. And if you guys have any physical
signs, packaging, or other stuff you're producing for
people to see in person, well, place the Snapcode someplace
where they can easily snap it. Like if you have a physical store,
putting it in a store window or by your
checkout area makes a lot of sense,
spots where people usually
have their phones out already.
If you're already going to be at an event, well, make
sure it's on your signage or make some stickers
of it from an online place like Sticker Mule.
They can make easy freebies to give away and promotional
helpers. Just don't put Snapcodes in places
that don't make sense, like on vehicles or billboards,
when people really should not be using
their phones, specifically when driving.
My favorite actually is when
people put it on their packaging.
So when you buy something, you get the package, and
then it has the Snapcode, so the idea is like, I'll take
a photo of the Snapcode and I'll follow
you for promotions in the future.
But you know what?
Why promote yourself with a boring old Snapcode
when you can actually create a custom one?
Now, at the moment, you can't really do any customization
in the Snapchat app itself, but that doesn't
mean you can't create a custom
one to use everywhere else.
All you have to do is ensure the black dots in the Snapcode
are the same and the code should actually work.
So here's how you create a custom Snapcode.
Check this out.
Go to snaptageditor.com,
enter your Snapchat username and it'll populate all
the little black dots that make up your Snapcode.
Then choose a background color you like
instead of that yellow one that everybody has,
everyone sees it, it just blends in.
Pick something that matches your logo color,
that's generally a good idea.
Now, here comes the tricky part.
You could put a background image in there,
but here's my advice.
Don't put an image in.
Just download the free copy of this
from the site with the URL in the middle.
Backgrounds just don't work as well, it's harder
to see the code or know that it's a Snapcode.
After that, use a photo editing app like Photoshop or,
I constantly use Canva, Canva is a great example,
and then just remove the URL yourself.
Then if you want, add a custom image into that,
highlight or select the white middle ghost part, delete it,
and then superimpose the custom Snapcode
image over another picture, like your logo,
then download this. And then, boom, there you go.
You have a custom Snapchat code.
Why they made it so hard to do this, I don't know.
Just a safety tip here.
Don't edit those black dots at all, that makes up your
code, so your Snapchat code actually works, if you
move the dots in any way, it screws it up.
Now, you can add anything inside the ghost outline,
just don't touch the dots.
So now if you want to share your custom Snapcode
in different places, like, say, your Twitter or your
Facebook icon, it will look actually cool and not just
look like a blatant advertisement for Snapchat.
There you go, make your Snapcode visible,
use it to promote, and customize it
with tools to make it eye catching.
Have fun.
See you guys next time.